# 0x00. 导读

参考 [AMD-Onload-User-Guide-1.2.pdf](https://redhawk.concurrent-rt.com/docs/root/1Linux/1RedHawk/9.2/AMD-Onload-User-Guide-1.2.pdf)

# 0x01. 简介

Solarflare x2522, 2019 年 Xilinx 收购了 SolarFlare, 2020 年 AMD 收购了 Xilinx  
Exanic X10

Solarflare 其 Kernel Bypass 实现方案如下：在用户空间实现网络协议栈，并使用 `LD_PRELOAD` 覆盖目标程序的网络系统调用，而在底层访问网卡时依靠 EF_VI 库。  

Solarflare 网卡提供 3 个层级的 kernel bypass 实现方案:
- onload 不需要用户改代码，安装网卡驱动后，程序使用 onload 库启动就可以，简单易用；`--profile` 的配置文件在 `/usr/libexec/onload/profiles`
- tcpdirect 速度上比 onload 快一点，但需要用户修改代码；
- ef_vi 会跳过所有协议栈，直接读取网卡的某条特定的 RX 队列。

# 0x02. 

## 2.1 OpenOnload 模式

```bash
$ ls /usr/libexec/onload/profiles
cloud.opf                          latency.opf                      nginx-proxy-balanced.opf         proxy-throughput.opf-fragment  throughput.opf-fragment
haproxy-balanced.opf               nettyio-balanced.opf             nginx-proxy-performance.opf      redis-balanced.opf             wait-old-cluster-exit.opf-fragment
haproxy-parse-config.opf-fragment  nettyio-performance.opf          nginx-webserver-balanced.opf     redis-performance.opf          wan-traffic.opf-fragment
haproxy-performance.opf            nginx-like-st.opf                nginx-webserver-performance.opf  safe.opf                       zeromq.opf
latency-best.opf                   nginx-parse-config.opf-fragment  node-js.opf                      throughput_base.opf-fragment
```

可以用 `onload_stackdump env` 查看环境变量，用 `onload_stackdump doc` 查看环境变量的描述。注意环境变量是 per-stack 还是 per-process, `onload_stackdump` 查看 stack, `onload_stackdump processes` 查看 process.

- Spinning (busy-wait)

    Conventionally, when an application attempts to read from a socket and no data is available, the application will enter the OS kernel and block. 
    When data becomes available, the network adapter will interrupt the CPU, allowing the kernel to reschedule the application to continue.
    Blocking and interrupts are relatively expensive operations, and can adversely affect bandwidth, latency and CPU efficiency.

    Onload can be configured to spin on the processor in user mode for up to a specified number of microseconds waiting for data from the network. If the spin period expires the processor will revert to conventional blocking behavior. Non-blocking sockets will always return immediately as these are unaffected by spinning.
    Onload uses the EF_POLL_USEC environment variable to configure the length of the spin timeout.  
    `export EF_POLL_USEC=100000`

    To enable spinning in Onload: Set EF_POLL_USEC. This causes Onload to spin on the processor for up to the specified number of microseconds before blocking. This setting is used in TCP and UDP and also in recv(), select(), pselect() and poll(), ppoll() and epoll_wait(), epoll_pwait() and onload_ordered_epoll_wait().

    Note: If neither of the spinning options `EF_POLL_USEC` and `EF_SPIN_USEC` are set, **Onload will resort to default interrupt driven behavior because the EF_INT_DRIVEN environment variable is enabled by default.** 

    Setting the EF_POLL_USEC variable also sets the following environment variables.
    ```
    EF_SPIN_USEC=EF_POLL_USEC
    EF_SELECT_SPIN=1
    EF_EPOLL_SPIN=1
    EF_POLL_SPIN=1
    EF_PKT_WAIT_SPIN=1
    EF_TCP_SEND_SPIN=1
    EF_UDP_RECV_SPIN=1
    EF_UDP_SEND_SPIN=1
    EF_TCP_RECV_SPIN=1
    EF_BUZZ_USEC=MIN(EF_POLL_USEC, 100)
    EF_SOCK_LOCK_BUZZ=1
    EF_STACK_LOCK_BUZZ=1
    ```

    例如：
    ```bash
    # 轮训模式
    $ cat /usr/libexec/onload/profiles/latency.opf
    ...
    onload_set EF_POLL_USEC 100000
    ...

    # 中断模式
    $ cat /usr/libexec/onload/profiles/node-js.opf
    ...
    onload_set EF_INT_DRIVEN 1
    ...
    ```

    什么时候使用 Spinning 模式：
    > In general, an application will benefit from spinning if the number of active threads is less than the number of available CPU cores. However, if the application has more active threads than available CPU cores, spinning can adversely affect application performance because a thread that is spinning (and therefore idle) takes CPU time away from another thread that could be doing work. If in doubt, it is advisable to try an application with a range of settings to discover the optimal value.

- interrupt 模式

    `EF_INT_DRIVEN`


从 [11](https://www.hanlinit.com/docs/common-questions-2/) 中得到：
- onload -p latency taskset -c 3 ./[Application] 或 onload --profile=latency taskset -c 2 ./[Application], 使用 spinning 模式加速应用
- onload ./[Application], 使用 interrupt 模式加速应用